refactor: new structure android (#707)
ZupIT/beagle-docs: content/en/android/customization/widgets/custom-widget-with-action.md

---
title: OnChange Custom Widget
weight: 134
description: Creating a custom widget with onChange
---

---

Currently in Beagle, the component [**TextInput**]({{< ref path="/api/components/ui/textinput" lang="en" >}}) has the behavior of executing an action list. To do this, it exposes the `onChange` property, which receives the list of actions that will be triggered.

> In this tutorial we will see how to create a custom widget with the behavior of triggering a list of actions, we will create `DatePicker` a date selection component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we will see how to create a custom widget with the behavior of triggering a list of actions, then we will create `DatePicker`, a date selection component.
```

> ### Step 1: Creating custom component on android

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Creating a custom component on Android
```

> In your component's class we will inherit from `TextView` and `DatePickerDialog.OnDateSetListener`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will inherit from `TextView` and `DatePickerDialog.OnDateSetListener`.
```

```kotlin
class DatePickerComponent(
    context: Context
) : TextView(context), DatePickerDialog.OnDateSetListener {

    private val myCalendar: Calendar = Calendar.getInstance()
    var dateSetListener: DateSetListener? = null

    init {
        this.setOnClickListener {
            DatePickerDialog(context, this, myCalendar
                .get(Calendar.YEAR), myCalendar.get(Calendar.MONTH),
                myCalendar.get(Calendar.DAY_OF_MONTH)).show()
        }
    }

    fun setText(text: String) {
        this.text = text
    }

    private fun Date.formatDate(): String{
        val myFormat = "yyyy-MM-dd"
        val simpleDateFormat = SimpleDateFormat(myFormat, Locale.US)
        return simpleDateFormat.format(this).toString()
    }

    override fun onDateSet(view: DatePicker?, year: Int, month: Int, dayOfMonth: Int) {
        myCalendar[Calendar.YEAR] = year
        myCalendar[Calendar.MONTH] = month
        myCalendar[Calendar.DAY_OF_MONTH] = dayOfMonth
        dateSetListener?.onDateSet(myCalendar.time.formatDate())
    }

}

interface DateSetListener{
    fun onDateSet(value: String)
}
```

> As we can see, we have some methods in class, below I will explain in detail.

Reviewer: This sentence is too informal and don't add relevant information or guidance. We should rewrite or remove it

> In the init method is the click configuration, when the user clicks on the text he will display the calendar to select the date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the init method is the click configuration. When the user clicks on the text, it will display a calendar to select the date.
```

```kotlin
init {
        this.setOnClickListener {
            DatePickerDialog(context, this, myCalendar
                .get(Calendar.YEAR), myCalendar.get(Calendar.MONTH),
                myCalendar.get(Calendar.DAY_OF_MONTH)).show()
        }
    }
```

> The `setText` method responsible for displaying the text for the user to click, example `click here to select a date`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `setText` method is responsible for displaying the text for the user to click. For example: `click here to select a date`.
```

```java
fun setText(text: String) {
        this.text = text
    }
```

> The next method is an Extension function responsible for formatting the date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next method is an extension function responsible for formatting the date.
```

```java
private fun Date.formatDate(): String{
        val myFormat = "yyyy-MM-dd"
        val simpleDateFormat = SimpleDateFormat(myFormat, Locale.US)
        return simpleDateFormat.format(this).toString()
    }
```

This method came from the DatePickerDialog.OnDateSetListener interface and it is responsible for taking the date selected by the user.

> * Through this method we will pass the value that the user selected to the method of the interface of our component `dateSetListener?.onDateSet(myCalendar.time.formatDate())`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We will pass through this method the value that the user selected, to the method of the interface of our component `dateSetListener?.onDateSet(myCalendar.time.formatDate())`
```

```java
override fun onDateSet(view: DatePicker?, year: Int, month: Int, dayOfMonth: Int) {
        myCalendar[Calendar.YEAR] = year
        myCalendar[Calendar.MONTH] = month
        myCalendar[Calendar.DAY_OF_MONTH] = dayOfMonth
        dateSetListener?.onDateSet(myCalendar.time.formatDate())
    }
```

> ### Step 2: Registering component in the beagle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Registering a component in the Beagle
```

> Create a class and over the name put the annotation `@RegisterWidget` and inherit from the class `WidgetView()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a subclass of WidgetView and put the`@RegisterWidget`.
```

* Implement the `buildView` method that came from the `WidgetView ()` class
* In this class we will add two attributes:
    1. `date` this attribute responsible for presenting the value of the selected date.
    2. `onChange` this attribute responsible for taking the selected date value.

```java
@RegisterWidget
class DatePicker(
    val date: Bind<String>,
    val onChange: List<Action>
) : WidgetView() {

    override fun buildView(rootView: RootView) = DatePickerComponent(rootView.getContext()).apply {

        observeBindChanges(rootView, this, date) { text ->
            text?.let { setText(it) }
        }

        dateSetListener = object : DateSetListener {
            override fun onDateSet(value: String) {
                this@DatePicker.handleEvent(
                    rootView,
                    this@apply,
                    onChange,
                    ContextData(
                        id = "onChange",
                        value = value
                    )
                )
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> This block of code looks at the date attribute, when you change the value, it adds the new value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This block of code looks at the date attribute, and. when you change the value, it adds the new value.
```

}
```

> This block of code looks at the date attribute, and. when you change the value, it adds the new value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This block of code looks at the date attribute, and when you change the value, it adds the new value.
```
